hey this is pressure Walker a Singapore
math question on students birthday
months has everyone stumped again this
is according to mothership what is the
question there are 37 students in a
class how many students at the least are
born in the same month you did hear that
correctly and I know what you're
thinking this problem is too easy
obviously the answer is 0 is the least
number you can have all 37 students with
birthdays in one month so the other
months would all have 0 student
birthdays this means the least number is
0 now I'm gonna give some credit to this
Singapore math question the problem
likely intended something else
so let's speculate on what the problem
was really about and then solved those
problems
so one speculation is the following how
many students do you need in a group to
be guaranteed at least two students have
birthdays in the same month another
possibility is that there are 37
students in a class the students compare
birthdays and find some month contains
more birthdays than any other month that
month has X birthdays what is the least
possible value for X can you figure out
these problems give them a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the answer
so for the first possibility how many
students do you need in a group to be
guaranteed at least two students have
birthdays in the same month the answer
is 13 students you could have 12
students who had birthdays in 12
different months but then the 13 student
must have a birthday in the same month
as someone else this is an example of a
powerful counting principle known as the
pigeonhole principle if you have n
pigeonholes to contain more than n
pigeons that at least one pigeonhole has
to contain more than one pigeon there's
an alternate form of this principle
which loosely states that the maximum
value has to be at least the average
value and this version is useful in many
problems and we'll use it to solve the
second possibility for what this problem
was intending so this possibility is
that there are 37 students in the class
and the students compare birthdays and
find some month contains more birthdays
than any other month that month has X
birthdays what is the least possible
value for X so let's use the principle
that the maximum value is at least the
average value we'll compute the average
number of birthdays per month there are
37 birthdays to be divided by 12 months
this makes for three and one twelfth
birthdays per month so the maximum value
the month with the most birthdays has to
be at least as large this means the
maximum value is at least four birthdays
and that's the least possible value for
X now there's another way that you could
see this think about distributing the
students into the months you can put 36
students as 3 per month but then the 37
student would be forced to be in sum 1
which is the same as these other
students so that month would have at
least 4 birthdays so there's two
different ways of seeing this answer but
the correct answer to this is that X is
for did you figure these problems out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon you can email
me presh at mind your decisions calm if
you have a puzzle suggestion or math
topic and you can catch me on social
media either at mind your decisions or a
presto Walker